# Introduction

* What is the motivation for writing this?
* I decided to write this because I felt there were no resources that adequately described how to use bitcoin as money in the most effective manner. I'm talking about using bitcoin as your cash balance, converting all of your earnings to it, and then converting it back to fiat for spending on a daily or weekly basis.
* If you are considering this but are uncertain about how to proceed (what if bitcoin drops significantly when you decide to do this? how to handle volatility...), this can serve as your guide to money management best practices and timeless principles. If you adhere to these principles, upgrading to the full bitcoin standard will have nothing but positive effects on your life.
* Bitcoin is a radically different form of money than most people are used to. It is highly volatile deflationary money as opposed to fiat, which is inflationary money with low volatility. This fact alone causes a great deal of confusion, particularly for those who have not yet mastered general good money practices (zero-based budgeting, debt-free living, and giving), which are especially important when you introduce bitcoin to your overall financial picture.
* I like to think of bitcoin as a technological breakthrough similar to fire or electricity. These technologies are extremely powerful, but if not handled properly and safely, they can be devastating. Bitcoin is a lot like that. There are people whose financial lives have been wrecked because they ignored these basic rules and handled bitcoin badly. Once humans discovered how to use fire and electricity safely, they established civilizations. And as humans continue to learn how to use bitcoin effectively and safely, they are going to fix numerous problems caused by the fiat standard.
* This guide is all about understanding the timeless basic principles of money management, which are critical to using bitcoin safely and effectively.&#x20;
* When you safely upgrade to the full bitcoin standard using the principles outlined in this guide, it is likely that your outlook on life will undergo a radical transformation. You will learn how to always maintain complete control over your purchasing power, how to eliminate outflows that are actually a waste to you, and how to consistently increase your inflows regardless of the type of work you do.
