# Bull Markets: Pay For Future Outflows

* if you live on a full bitcoin standard, you will inevitably experience periods of bitcoin purchasing power appreciation - bull markets. if you also run a zero based budget, you will notice that during these periods, your budget will grow, and thus, you will have more money to assign to your categories.
* it would be wise for you at this point to start looking at your budgeting history, and take note of your outflows. ask yourself - how much of these outflows I am going to likely repeat in the future? if you practice zero based budgeting for the past six months, you can likely estimate your outflows in the next six months. if you practice zero based budgeting for two years, you could estimate your outflows for the next two years.
* this act of projecting future outflows is never going to be exact, because future is uncertain. but it is still very useful as a practice, because you at least have an idea of what you can expect in terms of what you find valuable to spend money on, and how much is it approximately.
* let's say that throughout your budgeting, you found out you are spending $600 per month on your Shelter (assume in this example we are renting, and the total average cost for rent, utilities and all other things you may spend in Shelter category per month is $600 for the past two years).
* let's also assume you have around $3,000 in your Shelter category, meaning you have roughly around 5 months of expenses saved up.
* let's also assume that during the period of the bull market, your total purchasing power increases 5 fold, and during your budget reconciliation, you find yourself having around $15,000 in your Shelter category, which is around 25 months of expenses saved up.
* in this situation, you should start thinking about your future Shelter outflows, and how you can pay for them right now. if your rent for example goes for $450/month and your utilities average $100/month, and you have additional $50/month of expenses on miscellaneous necessities, it would be wise to use your extra money in the budget to prepay for some of this.
  * your landlord will likely negotiate a discount if you prepay your next say 24 months of rent. if you offer him to pay say $10,000 right now to secure next 25 months of rent, he may readily accept that even though he would get $11,250 if you were to pay $450 month over month. you are removing his occupancy risk this way, and it's likely you will be able to save up couple of months of rent this way (say around 3 months during the 2 year period).
  * your utilities bill may be optimized as well. look for ways to pay for electricity, water, internet in advance - are these utility providers offering some sort of package plans where you can save by paying in advance? it is worth looking into this
  * check your budget and go over the things you are buying in addition to paying rent & utilities. for example check how much you spent on cleaning supplies in the past year. can you purchase some of these in bulk & shop around to get a discount? it is very likely you can find ways to get the same value for less money if you do this and buy in bulk.
  * what ends up happening is that if you do this, you will be able to pay for your future Shelter category outflows for a discount, while doing so during the period of bitcoin's purchasing power appreciation. you will be able to look around you and if you see that people are getting into bitcoin while still being in debt (or simply buying bitcoin with leverage), you can be certain that the more intense bitcoin purchasing appreciation gets during the bull market, the sharper it is going to drop when liquidation cascade starts (bear market).
  * do this for all other categories in your budget as well. some ideas:
    * groceries: the longer you run zero based budget, the more insight you will have on your food expenses. in the bull market, you should look for ways to pay your payees for your future groceries. it may be wise to buy red meat in bulk and freezing it, and/or pay the rancher to raise the cattle which you will only get to consume in 2 or 3 years. same with your other food expenses - the more you can think of ways of buying food in bulk and storing it, or paying for future consumables now, the better prices you will get and less outflows you are going to have during the bear market.
    * transport: are you saving up for a car? during the bull market you will likely be able to purchase the car you saved up for. can you also prepay for your ongoing transport costs? check your spending from your transport category and look for ways to optimize that by prepaying for future outflows
    * clothing: bull markets are the time to replenish your wardrobe. also, think and check your budget for insights on what you are spending on, where you usually shop and how you can purchase in bulk, and prepay. usually you will get discounts when you purchase clothing out of season, for example if you shop for summer clothing during the winter time, and vice versa.
    * personal computer / phone / electronics: again, now is the time to renew your electronics.
    * travel / vacation: can you shop around and compare prices of your planned travels in the future? usually the further away in the future you pay for your trip, the less you will pay. last minute arrangements are the most expensive, so take advantage of your increased purchasing power to get deals you can pay for now, but will actually consume in the future.
    * make sure you check your total net worth, and decide if you will move some of the cash into home and/or capital. remember to not go above 1/3rd of your total net worth in home and no more than 1/3rd in capital.
