# Restlessness & Confusion Caused By Debt Negatively Impact Your Inflows And Outflows

* this may be an obvious point, but it should be spelled out nonetheless. when you spend credit (or in other words, when you enter into a state of debt) - you are still spending, you are not getting the thing for free.
* often times, we miss this point, because it seems to us that, even though we don’t have the money to pay for the thing we are purchasing right now, in full, if we purchase it with credit, then we get the things, without paying for it. but we are paying for it, it’s just that the payment is going to be spread over the duration of the debt.
*   but somehow, it seems to us like we got this thing without paying for it, because we still haven’t made a single payment for it. and even when we start paying for it, we still feel like we somehow managed to get the thing without really paying for it.

    do you know what I mean?
* if you have $10,000 in your bank account, and you make say $4,000 a month. you are looking at the new car that has a price tag of $50,000. you clearly cannot pay for it, even if you emptied all of your bank account, you are still $40,000 short. but if the cost of this car is presented to you as $650 a month over the next 84 months, you will mentally compare just the two numbers: your current inflow of $4,000 a month and $650 a month outflow for that car. suddenly it looks like you can actually buy and start driving this car. but this is a massive confusion.
* starting from this massive confusion, you will try to rationalize why you should actually go for it. you will use this car for getting to work, you old car needs repairs, this new car is going to be better and more reliable, etc, you will increase your income in the future, and at the end of the day, you really want it now.
* but the real calculation for this car goes like this: first of all, if you were to pay with cash, you'd likely get a discount on the price, say maybe 5%-10%. and if you calculate $650 payments x 84 months, you will end up paying $54,600 for the car at the end, compared to say $47,600 (5% discount) or $45,000 (10% discount). We are talking about $7,000 to $8,600 difference over 84 months. you then need to calculate opportunity cost of this difference if it was held in bitcoin. over the past 7 years at the time of writing this, if you held $83 difference per month ($7,000 / 84), your purchasing power would increase 450%, ending up with around $36,000 worth of bitcoin, and if you do the same calculation for 10% discount ($102 per month, $8,600 divided by 84 months), you would end up with around $44,000 worth of bitcoin.
* you should also calculate depreciation of the car over the next 7 years, and understand that it is likely going to be lower rate of depreciation if you were to purchase it with cash instead of credit. this is becasue we in general tend to care for things more when we own them outright, rather than gaining increasing partial ownership over time while the thing is being used. there is a reason why leased & financed cars are usually in worse shape after being driven by the owners who got into debt to get them, vs the same cars with owners who paid in cash and took better care of them over the duration of the use. this goes the same for any other good you are buying with credit.
