# How Does Money Work In Everyday Life?

* Each individual human is unique.
* Humans are both physical and spiritual beings. When I say spiritual, I'm referring to things that are impossible to measure and define physically, like weight, height, and temperature. In this context, spiritual refers to non-physical (metaphysical) qualities such as patience, loyalty, diligence, and so on. When I say "spirits," I mean non-physical aspects of humans that can be grown and cultivated or eliminated/diminished.
* Humans value goods and services differently at different points in time and space due to their differences.
* Due to this, humans trade goods and services with one another. Person A trades with B because what B has is more valuable to A than what A has, and B values what A has more than what B has. So, as a result of the exchange, they both value the things they now have more than they did before the exchange.
* Direct trade encounters the problem of double coincidence of wants. A wants what B has, but B wants what C has. As a result, A attempts to exchange what it has with C, only to exchange it with B.
* The solution to the problem of double coincidence of wants is a medium of exchange. A medium of exchange is anything that a person acquires with the intention of exchanging it for something they actually want to use/consume.
* Because of their salability across time, space, and scale, certain goods emerge as better mediums of exchange than others over time.
* Money is a widely used medium of exchange. Anything can be used as money, but some things are more effective than others. It is critical to understand that all valuation happens in our spiritual part; there is nothing intrinsically valuable in physical objects. Our spiritual makeup (the sum of all our non-physical aspects) determines how we value things.
* Money is therefore a spiritual phenomenon when it comes to how humans exchange goods and services with one another.
* This guide is about wisdom on how to build our spiritual makeup in exchange aspects so that our relationships with others can generate more value for everyone. We can compare our spiritual makeup to that of a tree, which has three parts: roots (zero-based budgeting), trunk and branches (becoming and remaining debt free), and leaves and fruits (establishing a giving practice). We can also compare it to building a house, with the understructure (foundation) being zero-based budgeting, the plinth (base) becoming and staying debt-free, and the superstructure (visible part of the building) establishing giving practice.
* First, zero-based budgeting is a practice that allows us to have complete control over our money by deciding its opportunity cost and controlling it in the dimension of time.
* Second, becoming and staying debt-free involves eliminating wasteful (misjudged valuations) outflows by eliminating credit spending and replacing it with cash spending. This fully stops the growth of the spirit of slavery and restlessness and initiates the growth of the spirit of freedom and peace. This provides a solid foundation for our spiritual makeup, replacing confusion about money with clarity and preparing us for the third step.
* Third, establishing a giving practice is about increasing our inflows. Practicing this will grow the spirit of generosity and prevent the growth of the spirit of stinginess, leading to more opportunities to increase our inflows.
