# My Bitcoin Story

I remember hearing and reading about Bitcoin for the first time in 2012, but it didn't really pique my interest at the time, because I thought it was just another virtual currency, like WoW gold. In 2013, I heard about it again in the context of the FBI shutting down the Silk Road marketplace. The involvement of the U.S. government made it more intriguing to me, as it indicated that this wasn't just some code that could be altered at the whim of its creators, and it was used in real commerce.&#x20;

But buying Bitcoin in 2013 meant that I'd have to find a way to wire funds to Mt. Gox in Japan, which I felt was just too cumbersome, so I abandoned the idea.

Then I recall reading in early 2014 that Mt. Gox was defunct and closed as well.&#x20;

I took a break from my entrepreneurial pursuits during the summer of 2014 due to a sort of burnout. I was using this time to clear my mind of many things, and my information intake was fairly light. I came across a short tutorial named "Up And Running With Bitcoin" on Lynda.com (which is now a part of LinkedIn) that briefly explained how Bitcoin worked under the hood, how to install and run Bitcoin Core node software, and how to send and receive transactions.&#x20;

After reading more about it and realizing that the network was still operational even after Silk Road was shut down and Mt. Gox exchange went bankrupt, I decided I should try to acquire and experiment with it this time. Fortunately, where I live in Croatia, there was a small Bitcoin exchange that was just getting started, and I was able to purchase around $20 worth of Bitcoin in July 2014, when the exchange rate was around $600 per BTC.

I did set up the node, receive the transaction, and read a bit more about it on Bitcointalk.org forums, but as the summer drew to a close, I became increasingly preoccupied with my entrepreneurial venture again. By the winter of 2014, I had practically forgotten about my Bitcoin experiment, as I was immersed in a new project that would eventually become a six-cofounder startup in 2015.&#x20;

It wasn't until late 2017 that I suddenly realized Bitcoin was trading around $15,000 per BTC, whereas I distinctly recall purchasing it for around $600 per BTC. This was the moment that made me become so fascinated by the phenomenon, and I think of it as the start of my journey down the rabbit hole.

Fortunately, I had very little time to get exposed to shitcoins, and starting in 2018, I entered my first real Bitcoin bear market. It was when I read "The Bitcoin Standard" by Saifedean Ammous that I understood the basics of monetary economics and the difference between hard and easy money, stock to flow, salability, and the problems money actually solves. My shitcoin phase ended when I stopped analyzing altcoin from the perspective of marketing narratives and a technical lens.

All of this occurred during the 2018 bear market, and by mid-year, I also parted ways with the startup I co-founded. This meant my regular inflows from the startup stopped, and I felt the need to learn how to manage my budget since my savings were starting to get depleted, while income became irregular. I discovered the Dave Ramsey show and his teachings on why people should get out of debt. By listening to hundreds of stories about how people's lives got ruined by debt, I grew convinced that my previous stance on debt was wrong, both in my personal and business life. I started zero-based budgeting, and by the end of 2018, I cleared all of my debt.

By the end of 2018, I also got rid of shitcoins and went Bitcoin-only. Throughout 2019, I freelanced while studying Bitcoin further. I did my first Bitcoin presentations at my former university and conducted some workshops in the small town of Rab where I now live. There wasn't much interest from the public at the time, but I slowly connected with a couple of Bitcoiners from Croatia. Most of my time was spent listening to Bitcoin podcasts, reading Bitcoin Twitter, and trying to find people I could talk to about Bitcoin.

It was in the summer of 2020 when I got the opportunity to start working in the Bitcoin industry by connecting with Saifedean Ammous, author of The Bitcoin Standard, and helping him fix some of the issues he had on his website. We continued working together in a larger capacity from then on, and I delved even deeper into economics and Bitcoin education simply by working behind the scenes, running the operation, and utilizing my former entrepreneurial experience to solve some of the problems we faced, scaling the business further.

This was also the first time I had a chance to earn bitcoin directly. Around the time bitcoin broke its all-time high in late autumn 2020, I ran out of fiat money, and came to a situation where both my income and savings were all in bitcoin. I did have a bit of fiat inflows, but these were spent first, and I had no choice but to learn how to live on full bitcoin standard. I still had expenses in my daily life, but my bitcoin income and savings simply grew faster than my expenses, so I started treating bitcoin as my cash balance, which means I started spending it just as I would spend my fiat. I was already consistent in running zero-based budget, debt-free and had established giving practice. When I switched my cash balance from fiat to bitcoin, all I had to do in my budget was do a regular "purchasing power reconciliation." Once I started doing that, things went smoothly.

During the bull run in early 2021, I naturally made some significant expenditures because I was hitting my savings goals because bitcoin was going up so much. I also put money into my business by investing in a new office space and equipping it with the tech I needed to get more done. I also improved my quality of life by replacing all of my consumer electronics, bought a new scooter to get around the island, and going on several short trips, all of which were paid for with bitcoin.

Late in 2021, as my giving budget category grew, I felt called to financially support some people who's livelihoods were threatened because of state COVID lockdowns and attacks against basic freedoms. This is when I really understood Bitcoin's power as a money that can't be censored. I helped a number of locals who were gathering in daily protests against the state opression get started on their Bitcoin journey. I got in touch with a group of German and Austrian bitcoiners, whom I helped get away from their regimes and relocate to Rab.

I made consistent daily efforts to organize resistance to imposed measures, and I found ways to introduce Bitcoin to my local community at each local meetup. If I didn't live on a full bitcoin standard, I'm sure I'd self-censor because I'd feel too vulnerable to lose access to my money, like people who protested the COVID regime in Canada.

Thankfully, these efforts paid off because they lead to putting together a big gathering in Rab in spring of 2022, which has led to forming Dvadesetjedan group ([Twentyone.World](https://twentyone.world/)). Our group started making weekly Bitcoin podcasts in our local language. This helped me learn even more about Bitcoin because I could now talk about it from many different angles.

Since I had already incurred the majority of my budgeted major expenses in 2021, my overall expense rate was lower in 2022. This was great because it was apparent Bitcoin was heading into a bear market around early summer of 2022. My response was again, pretty natural, as I just kept reducing my expenses and did my best to bring up my income, which meant my savings rate was going up.&#x20;

But as the bear market went on, I noticed that the bitcoiners I was following started to slow down their purchases and look for reasons to become more bearish about bitcoin. This was especially clear in the summer of 2022, when the price of bitcoin dropped below its 200-week moving average and stayed there for over 6 months. It was the time when I was getting the most bitcoin, while most other bitcoiners were slowing down or even stopping. Many people were waiting to buy Bitcoin at its absolute lowest price, which happened in November 2022 when the price reached roughly $15,000. I distinctly recall virtually every prominent bitcoiner calling for further price declines to $12,000 or even lower, with a few even calling for even lower prices.

On the other hand, I was doing my best to explain what I was doing by living on a full bitcoin standard on our weekly Dvadesetjedan bitcoin podcast, and I started writing notes that would eventually become this manual. After a full bull market and a full bear market on a full bitcoin standard, I now know that this is the best way to maximize your net worth and make the most of the bitcoin volatility. In this guide, I'll try to explain what I think are the most important steps you should take before doing this.

Learning this is similar to learning to ride a bicycle; you only need to do it once, and you will never forget how to do it.
