# My Story

I remember hearing and reading about bitcoin for the first time in 2012, but it did not pique my interest at the time. I thought it was just another experiment with virtual currency, like WoW gold. In 2013, I heard about it again in the context of the FBI shutting down the Silk Road marketplace. The involvement of the U.S. government made it more intriguing to me, as it indicated that this wasn't just some code that can be altered at the whim of its creators. However, trying to buy bitcoin in 2013 meant that I'd have to go find a way to do it, and there was pretty much only Mt. Gox exchange that I'd have to wire funds to, and this was all just too cumbersome, so I abandoned the idea.

I recall reading in early 2014 that Mt. Gox was defunct and closed as well. I took a break from my entrepreneurial pursuits during the summer of 2014 due to a sort of burnout. I was using this time to clear my mind of many things, and my information intake was fairly light. I came across a short tutorial named "Up And Running With Bitcoin" on Lynda.com (which is now a part of Linkedin) that briefly explained how bitcoin worked under the hood, how to install and run Bitcoin Core node software, and how to send and receive transactions. After reading more about it and realizing that the network was still operational even after Silk Road was shut down and Mt. Gox exchange went bankrupt, I decided to try to acquire some and experiment with it this time. Fortunately, where I live in Croatia there was a small bitcoin exchange that was just getting started, and I was able to purchase around $20 worth of bitcoin in July 2014, when the exchange rate was around $600/btc.

I did set up the node, receive the transaction, and read more, but as the summer drew to a close, I became increasingly preoccupied with my entrepreneurial venture again. By the winter of 2014, I had practically forgotten about my bitcoin experiment, as I was immersed in a new project that would eventually become a six-cofounder startup in 2015. It wasn't until late 2017 that I suddenly realized bitcoin was trading around $15,000/btc, whereas I distinctly recall purchasing it for around $600/btc. This was the moment that made me become so fascinated in the phenomenon, and I think of it as the start of my journey down the rabbit hole.

* luckily I got very little time to get to exposed to shitcoins - and starting in 2018 I entered bear market.
* my shitcoin phase ended when I stopped analysing altcoin phenomena from the perspective of marketing narratives and technical lens. it was when I read The Bitcoin Standard by Saifedean Ammous that I understood basics of monetary economics and the difference between hard and easy money, stock to flow, salability and the problem money actually solves.
* this was all in 2018 bear market, and by the mid year I also parted ways with my startup I co-founded. this meant my regular inflows from the startup stopped, and I felt the need to learn how to manage budget since my savings were starting to get depleted, while income became irregular. I discovered Dave Ramsey show and his teachings on why people should get out of debt, and by listening to hundreds of stories how people's lives got ruined by debt, I grew convinced my previous stance on debt was wrong (both in personal and business life), and started zero-based budgeting and by the end of 2018 I cleared all of my debt.
* by the end of 2018 I also got rid of shitcoins and went bitcoin only
* throughout 2019 I was freelancing while studying bitcoin further. I did my first bitcon presentations at my former university, and did some workshops in the small town of Rab where I live now. there wasn't much interest from the public at the time, but I slowly got to connect with couple of bitcoiners from Croatia. most of my time was spent listening to bitcoin podcasts, reading bitcoin twitter and trying to find people I can talk about bitcoin :)
* it was in summer of 2020 when I got the opportunity to start working in bitcoin industry, by connecting with Saifedean and helped him fix some of the issues he had on his online courses & website. we continued working together in larger and larger capacity from then on, and I got to get even deeper economics & bitcoin education simply by working behind the scenes, running the operation and utilizing my former entrepreneurial experience to solve some of the problems we faced and scaled the business further.
