# My Bitcoin Story, From Beginning To Full Bitcoin Standard

I first heard about Bitcoin in 2012 but didn't find it interesting. I thought it was just some digital currency for gamers. I found out in 2013 that the FBI shut down Silk Road, the place where they used Bitcoin for buying and selling. The U.S. government's involvement added to my level of interest. It showed that Bitcoin wasn't just a code that could be changed by its creators, but was actually used in real commerce. Illegal, but real.

I considered buying Bitcoin in 2013, but wiring money from Croatia to Japan's Mt. Gox exchange was just too complicated, so I ditched the idea. And then I remember reading in 2014 that Mt. Gox was gone and shut down.

My entrepreneurial pursuits took a backseat during the summer of 2014 as I experienced burnout and needed to take a break. I was just taking it easy, not really paying attention to much. I stumbled upon a Lynda.com tutorial called "Up And Running With Bitcoin" that gave an in-depth explanation of how to use Bitcoin. I got Bitcoin Core up and running and was ready to send and receive my first Bitcoin transaction.

Then I read more about it. I realized the network was still operational even after the shutdown of Silk Road and the bankruptcy of Mt. Gox exchange. I decided I’ll definitely try to get some Bitcoin to experiment with this time. Fortunately, where I live in Croatia, there was a small Bitcoin exchange that was just getting started. I purchased around $20 worth of Bitcoin in July 2014, when the exchange rate was around $600 per BTC.

After receiving my first Bitcoin transaction from the exchange, I researched it further on Bitcointalk.org forums, but as summer drew to a close, my attention shifted back to my entrepreneurial venture. By the time the winter of 2014 rolled around, I had practically forgotten about my Bitcoin experiment as I became increasingly preoccupied with work.

It wasn’t until late 2017 that I suddenly realized Bitcoin was trading around $15,000 per BTC, whereas I distinctly recall purchasing it for around $600 per BTC. This was the moment that made me become so fascinated by the phenomenon, and I think of it as the start of my journey down the rabbit hole.

Fortunately, I had very little time to get exposed to shitcoins, and starting in 2018, I entered my first real Bitcoin bear market. It was when I read “The Bitcoin Standard” by Saifedean Ammous that I understood the basics of the monetary economics. Now I knew the difference between hard and easy money, stock to flow, salability, and the problems money actually solves. I stopped analyzing altcoins from the perspective of their marketing narratives.

All of this occurred during the 2018 bear market, and by mid-year, I also parted ways with the startup I co-founded. This meant my regular inflows from the startup stopped. I felt the need to learn how to manage my budget since my savings were getting depleted, while income became irregular. I discovered the Dave Ramsey Show and his teachings on why people should get out of debt. I was listening to hundreds of stories about how people’s lives got ruined by debt. I grew convinced that my previous stance on debt was wrong, both in my personal and business life. I started budgeting my money, and by the end of 2018, I cleared all of my debt.

By the end of 2018, I also got rid of shitcoins and went to Bitcoin-only. Throughout 2019, I freelanced while studying Bitcoin further. I did my first Bitcoin presentations at my former university and conducted some workshops in the small town of Rab, where I now live. There wasn’t much interest from the public, but I slowly connected with a couple of Bitcoiners from Croatia. I spent most of my time listening to Bitcoin podcasts, reading Bitcoin Twitter, and trying to find people I could talk to about Bitcoin.

It was in the summer of 2020 when I started working in the Bitcoin industry by connecting with Saifedean Ammous, author of The Bitcoin Standard. I started out by helping him fix some issues he had on his website. We continued working together in a larger capacity from then on. I learned more about economics and Bitcoin by working on his online courses, seminars, podcasts and books.

This was also the first time I earned Bitcoin directly. Around the time Bitcoin broke it’s all-time high in late autumn 2020, I ran out of fiat money. Both my income and savings were all in Bitcoin. I had a bit of fiat inflows, but I spent these first, and I had no choice but to learn how to live on full Bitcoin standard. I still had expenses in my daily life, but my Bitcoin income and savings simply grew faster than my expenses. So I started treating Bitcoin as my cash balance, which means I started spending it just as I would spend my fiat.

I was already consistent in budgeting, completely debt-free, and had established giving practice. When I switched my cash balance from fiat to Bitcoin, all I had to do in my budget was practice a regular “purchasing power reconciliation.” Once I started doing that, things went smoothly.

During the bull run in early 2021, I naturally made some significant expenditures because I was hitting my savings goals because bitcoin was going up so much. I also put money into my business by investing in a new office space and equipping it with the tech I needed to get more done. I also replaced all of my consumer electronics and bought a new scooter to get around the island. I took several brief vacations & trips, all of which were paid for with Bitcoin.

In the latter part of 2021, state COVID lockdowns and attacks against basic freedom intensified in my local community. My budget for giving expanded, and I felt compelled to provide financial help to some people I knew had their livelihoods threatened. It was then that I fully realized Bitcoin's potential as money that cannot be censored. I was helping locals, who were protesting state oppression daily, to begin their journey with Bitcoin. I also helped them continue the resistance. If I wasn't all in on Bitcoin, I'd be more careful about what I express. I’d feel too vulnerable to lose access to my money, like people who protested the COVID regime in Canada.

I connected with Bitcoiners from Germany and Austria, who were seeking to leave their oppressive state regimes. I helped some of them move to where I live. All of this led to me organizing Bitcoiner’s gathering in Rab in the spring of 2022. We formed “[Dvadesetjedan](https://twitter.com/dvadesetjedan21/)” group, which is an open Bitcoin-only group for the Balkans region. This idea came from “[Einundzwanzig](https://einundzwanzig.space/)”, a German Bitcoin network, and now it's part of the “[Twenty One World](https://twentyone.world/)”. By hosting a weekly podcast in my local language, I could both teach and learn about the many ideas within the Bitcoin space.

My overall expense rate in 2022 was lower because I had already incurred most of my budgeted major expenses in 2021. This was fantastic because Bitcoin was approaching a bear market around the early stages of summer in 2022. I responded naturally by cutting down expenses and raising income, which led to an increase in my Bitcoin savings rate.

As the bear market progressed, I saw that the Bitcoiners I was following decreased their Bitcoin purchases. Most were almost seeking for reasons to become more bearish on Bitcoin. This was especially clear in the summer of 2022, when the Bitcoin price dropped below its 200-week moving average and stayed there for over 6 months. It was the time when I was accumulating Bitcoin at the highest rate in my life, while most other Bitcoiners were slowing down or even stopping. Many were trying to time the market and buy Bitcoin at its absolute lowest price, which happened in November 2022 when the price reached roughly $15,000. But I remember nearly every Bitcoiner expecting it would drop to $12k or lower. Many missed the absolute bottom, while my all-in Bitcoin approach was picking up the bottom at the highest possible rate.

I was doing my best to explain what I was doing by living on a full Bitcoin standard on our weekly Dvadesetjedan Bitcoin podcast. I started writing notes that would eventually become this manual. After a bull and bear market on full Bitcoin standard, I now know that this is the best way to handle Bitcoin volatility. In the bull market, I spent more, which led to a decrease in my expense rate during the bear market. During the bear market, I decreased my spending and increased my earnings, resulting in greater accumulation. Even though I wasn't really thinking about what the price was going to do in the future, I was still doing better than the best traders I knew. I just kept readjusting my budget and spending as needed.

Learning how to live on a full Bitcoin standard is like learning to ride a bike. You'll only have to learn it once, and you'll never forget.
