# Spending Credit - Spending From The Uncertainty Of The Future

* why is spending credit (getting into debt) always a bad idea? fundamentally, because future is uncertain
* let's think about it in a deeper way. what does it mean that future is uncertain? it means we don't really know what is going to happen in our life tomorrow, a week from now, a month, year, or 10 years from now. we can plan and expect certain things to happen, but there is no real way to know with certainty.
* people usually think of uncertainty about the future with fear of bad things that may happen. but uncertain future also means there are good things that may happen. we just don't know when and how they will hapen (both good and bad).
* this is why fundamentally it's a bad idea to spend your future money. you just don't know how much money you will make & have in the future.
* but on the other side, we know for a fact what will happen if you spend from the future. your present cash outflows will increase until you pay off the debt.
* this increase in your present cash outflows can present a problem in two different ways.
  * 1\) a negative occurence in your future (that again, you don't know about) like losing or decreasing your cash inflows due to any negative event that may occur (losing the job, your clients going bankrupt, getting sick, things like that). a loss or decrease of inflow will further exacerbate the debt problem, because now you are increasing the risk of defaulting on your debt, which usually means cascade of bad outcomes that stream down the line. did you know that most divorces have money problems (mostly caused by debt) as their main cause?
  * 2\) a positive opportunity in your future may arise, that you will unfortunatelly pass on because you can't afford to take risks with your cash inflows. for example, you may get across an opportunity to switch career path, or start a new business, both of which may significantly decrease or stop your inflows altogether for a while (let's say for a year or two), but after this decrease your inflows could double, triple or sometimes grow orders of magnitude more than what you currently make. however, you are incurring this opportunity cost because you simply can't afford to take the risk - because your cash outflows are already determined by the payments you have to make.
* spending credit makes your psychospiritual makeup tainted by spirit of slavery. metaphysically, you as a borrower are slave to the lender.
* people can intuintively sense this spirit in you by the way you approach spending money, your work and your leisure time. the deeper and longer in debt you are, you will have less leisure time, your work will be more stressful, and your money spending more constrained. this aura will repel inflow opportunities that otherwise may arise, because spirit of slavery emanates energy of desperation, which other people can sense. nobody really wants to deal with desperate people, because deep down, if you sense that someone is desperate - you feel guilty if you don't help him out. the antidote for this is to establish a giving practice, but if you still haven't done so, you will usually just want to avoid dealing with people with whom you sense this air of desperation.

