# Spirit Of Slavery

* a place from which you do not have full control over the decision about utilizing your ultimate resource: your time. your time is partially or fully utilized to service the debt
* spirit of slavery also grows over time you stay in debt. eliminating debt from your balance sheet stops the growth of it. the longer you stay out of debt, the slower it will grow back if you decide to get into debt again
* think of it as a hinderance you get when you lose the asset of spirit of freedom (no more tree that grows and bears fruit, but instead you get thorns and weeds that make everything more difficult, painful and less enjoyable)
* will you decide to spend the next 6 months of your life working on a business venture that has 80% chance of doubling your inflows in a year from now? not if you are in debt for longer then a year already, and you still have more than 6 months worth of payments until you are out of debt completely.
* because of this, spirit of slavery incurs opportunity cost on your future inflows, as well as your past inflows while you were in debt. when you steb into debt free state of being, you eliminate this opportunity cost and start realizing higher inflows over time as spirit of freedom grows.
* in the above example, once you are out of debt for at least a year, you can start spending next 6 months of your life on a business venture with 80% chance of doubling inflows in a year. after you decide to do it, even if doubling of inflow doesn't happen (say you hit 20% chance of this not happening), you can repeat the process with same time frames and odds, but this time since you are out of debt for two years, you'll be able to plan your decisions for up to 2 years.
